\chapter{Handling Cache Interference in Safety-Critical Systems}
\label{cha:handling_it}
This chapter explores existing solutions to the issue of the interference
generated by cache coherence in safety-critical systems. Three approaches are
considered: Limiting either the capabilities of either the architecture or the
software running on it in order to limit the generation of these interference
(Section~\ref{sec:rel_work:handling_it:through_restrictions}); Modifying the
architecture's hardware or adding new hardware components in order to lessen
the unpredictability (Section~\ref{sec:rel_work:handling_it:through_hardware});
and lastly, solutions that involve running software in safety-critical systems
by showing that the effects of the interference remain acceptable.

\section{Through Restrictions}
\label{sec:rel_work:handling_it:through_restrictions}
\input{\chapterdirectory/src/handling_it/no_cache.tex}
\input{\chapterdirectory/src/handling_it/cache_partitioning.tex}
\input{\chapterdirectory/src/handling_it/cache_coloring.tex}
\input{\chapterdirectory/src/handling_it/sched_slice_deterministic.tex}
% MARTI Xavier Jean, lock step stall access to the coherence until TDMA allows.
% Claire Pagetti: pre-fetch, then lock.
% See Quentin's Thesis for a desc of Pagetti's paper..


\section{Through Hardware Modifications}
\label{sec:rel_work:handling_it:through_hardware}
\input{\chapterdirectory/src/handling_it/predictable_msi.tex}
\input{\chapterdirectory/src/handling_it/cache_where_you_want.tex}
\input{\chapterdirectory/src/handling_it/coherence_on_demand.tex}
\input{\chapterdirectory/src/handling_it/dynamic_verification_of_ccp.tex}
% Configuration, lock, set as uncacheable.

\section{By Accepting It}
\label{sec:rel_work:handling_it:accepting_it}
The most common approach to the analysis of interference in caches relies on
the static analysis and abstract interpretation approach originating from
\cite{10.1023/A:1008186323068}, which categorized accesses to caches depending
on whether they always found the value, never did, or if that could not be
determined. This was then taken into account account for the computation of the
WCET. The publications that followed usually propose the addition of a new
categorization, or remark on the incorrectness or incompleteness of the way
these categorizations evolve during the analysis of the program's CFG, and
propose corrections for mistakes made on previous attempts at doing so (up to,
and including, what has been presented in \cite{10.1023/A:1008186323068}).
While otherwise prevalent, this particular approach is not the one focused on in
this thesis, and thus only very few of these papers have been included in this
section. Readers interested in learning more about this subject are encouraged
to read \cite{10.1145/3290367}, and especially its well presented related works
section.

\subsection{Instruction Cache Analysis}
\input{\chapterdirectory/src/handling_it/instruction_cache_intro.tex}

\input{\chapterdirectory/src/handling_it/using_bypass_to_wcet.tex}

\input{\chapterdirectory/src/handling_it/complete_wcet_computation_framework.tex}

\stopallthesefloats
\subsection{Data Cache Analysis}
\input{\chapterdirectory/src/handling_it/using_bypass_to_data_wcet.tex}

\input{\chapterdirectory/src/handling_it/write_back_data_wcet.tex}

\stopallthesefloats
\section{Conclusion}
\input{\chapterdirectory/src/handling_it/conclusion.tex}
